乡村音乐诞生于1920年，Jimmie Rodgers将多种音乐风格混合，Dalhart的流行乐风格。正是界于这些之间文化--乡村音乐。　　他们的才能得助于当时的时代气息：如果大量的无线电和录音产品被弃之一边，美国风格的音乐就会被禁锢起来，无法得以传播，而乡村音乐也就无法在20年代得以创造出来了。　　Dalhart也许已为大多数人所遗忘，但他却是乡村音乐真正的第一位大明星。　　出生于德克萨斯州东部Marion Try Slaughter的一个牧牛家庭的他，在1910年来到了纽约，找到了一份在葬礼上唱歌的工作。然后，他参加了轻歌剧的表演。他的录音生涯始与1924年他的"囚徒之歌"（"The Prisoner's Song"）及其B面的"97遗骸"（"The Wreck of the Old 97"）的发售。他的用特有的方式演唱南部山区的歌曲，赢得了大众的欢迎，并使其成为在乡村音乐史中第一个获得百万销量的歌手。　　为了寻求更大的成功，录音公司开始向南部派出星探。Victor录音公司的Ralph Peer发现了Jimmy Rodgers和Carter家族，在1927年分别为他们在Bristol和Va录了音。"这些录音在乡村音乐的历史上独具重要性。"资深乡村艺人JohnnyCash这样说。Rodgers和Carter家族包括了A. P. ，其拥有纯真音色的妻子 Sara，以及吉他高手Maybelle（Sara的堂妹）， 在形成两种不同风格音乐的上，他们起到了非常重要的作用。Rodgers结合了蓝调（Blues）、白人山区歌谣(Yodels)、民谣（Fulk Tunes）的风格来演唱关于游荡者和码头工人。而Carter一家则着眼于家园、上帝、母亲、家庭和信仰。用的是一种安逸的、谐和的曲风。Traditional Country is a nebulous term — it can refer to anything from Roy Acuff's simple songs to the electrified honky tonk of Johnny Paycheck — but the name does evoke a specific sound, namely the long-standing tradition of simple country songs delivered with simple instrumentation and a distinct twang. The era of traditional country didn't begin until the late '20s, when Jimmie Rodgers became the first national country music star. Rodgers brought the formerly rural music into the industrial era by streamlining the music and lyrics; in the process, he made the genre a viable commercial property. Following Rodgers' success, old-time music faded in popularity and traditional country was born. For the next 40 years, most country music fell under the traditional country umbrella, regardless if it was the big-band dance music of Western swing or driving roadhouse honky tonk. The majority of the popular artists from the '30s and '40s — Acuff, Eddy Arnold, Ernest Tubb, Hank Williams — became the foundation of the Grand Ole Opry, a weekly radio broadcast that became the definitive word of country music. This generation of musicians inspired all the artists that emerged in the following two decades, who put their own spin on traditional country. Following the emergence of rock & roll, country music began to incorporate more pop production techniques, and although this Nashville sound was smoother than the music of the '40s and early '50s, it still conformed to the conventions of traditional country. During the '60s, mainstream country became progressively more pop-influenced, yet traditional country held strong until the early '70s, when country-pop became the dominant form of country music. Many fans of hard country turned toward the tougher sounds of progressive country and outlaw country, yet most of the country audience continued to listen to country-pop, especially since traditional country singers like George Jones, Conway Twitty, and Loretta Lynn had turned toward that subgenre. By the late '70s, most new country singers were either raised on country-pop or pop/rock, and consequently, the reign of traditional country came to an end. During the mid-'80s, a wave of new-traditionalist singers such as George Strait emerged, but their music tended to be influenced by contemporaries as well, making the movement as much an evolution as a revival.