酷爵士乐(CoolJazz)一般而言指1949-1950年间，由小喇叭手迈尔士戴维斯(MilesDavis)所领导的九重奏为Capitol唱片公司灌录的专辑《BirthoftheCool》所代表的乐风，它的诞生使主流爵士乐风，从咆哮乐风的"热"，转向另一个反方向酷派乐风的"冷"，这是一种180度大逆转的历史性发展。酷派爵士乐代表一种内敛自省的情感，它是一种轻柔、清凉与抒情的含蓄情愫；它的音色不如一般铜管器那样亮丽夺目，取而代之的是柔和优美。若说咆哮乐是代表热情奔放，那么酷派爵士乐就是内敛自省。简而言之，酷派爵士乐是对咆哮乐的反抗与检讨，同时也唤醒美国西岸一些白人乐手的自觉运动，形成一股新兴的爵士乐潮流-西岸酷派爵士乐(WestCoastCoolJazz)。而酷派爵士最著名的作品，即是迈尔士戴维斯五重奏的「KINDOFBLUE」。因为这种乐风常被美国西海岸乐手使用，所以Cool Jazz也被称为西岸爵士乐(West Coast Jazz)，它可以说恰好是相对于比波普的风格而存在，相对于比波普的快速节拍、复杂的旋律、和弦、曲调，Cool Jazz会轻松很多。1950年，Miles Davis九人小组推出的专辑《The Birth of The Cool》，标志着Cool爵士的产生。Cool爵士选用的音调是轻柔的、淡雅的，音质柔和干爽。独奏中，带给你一种柔和舒缓、克制的感觉。其重奏部分微妙深奥，有时让你联想起欧州经典室内乐。Cool爵士虽然也揉进了Bop的音调、旋律与和声的优势，但是比Bop的即兴演奏更舒缓平滑，音色更加和谐，与Bop相比，Cool爵士乐经常突出体现一种松弛感，而没有Bop那么强的内在张力。Cool爵士鼓手也更加安静，不干扰其他音色，总而言之，Cool爵士风格是节制的，“点到为止”，这正是为什么其乐迷称之为“Cool”的原因。Cool jazz is a style of modern jazz music that arose in the United States after World War II. It is characterized by relaxed tempos and lighter tone, in contrast to the fast and complex bebop style. Cool jazz often employs formal arrangements and incorporates elements of classical music. Broadly, the genre refers to a number of post-war jazz styles employing a more subdued approach than that found in other contemporaneous jazz idioms. As Paul Tanner, Maurice Gerow, and David Megill suggest "the tonal sonorities of these conservative players could be compared to pastel colors, while the solos of [Dizzy] Gillespie and his followers could be compared to fiery red colors."Cool Jazz evolved directly from bop in the late '40s and '50s. Essentially, it was a mixture of bop with certain aspects of swing that had been overlooked or temporarily discarded. Dissonances were smoothed out, tones were softened, arrangements became important again, and the rhythm section's accents were less jarring. Because some of the key pacesetters of the style (many of whom were studio musicians) were centered in Los Angeles, it was nicknamed "West Coast jazz." Some of the recordings were experimental in nature (hinting at classical music) and some overarranged sessions were bland, but in general this was a viable and popular style. By the late '50s, hard bop from the East Coast had succeeded cool jazz, although many of the style's top players had long and productive careers. Among the many top artists who were important in the development of cool jazz were Lester Young,Miles Davis, Gerry Mulligan, Stan Getz, Shorty Rogers, and Howard Rumsey (leader of the Lighthouse All-Stars). -- Scott YanowCool jazz arose slowly in the late 40s when many jazz musicians realised there was no point in following in the fast paced be-bop footsteps of Diz and Bird and began to try a more relaxed and quieter approach to playing. Early examples of cool jazz came from Miles Davis' Nonet and Lenny Tristano's group, while later practitioners like Gerry Mulligan and Chet Baker showed up on the west coast where cool jazz was often referred to as west coast jazz. Many cool jazz saxophonists looked to the pre-bop languid sax style of Lester Young for inspiration. Also, 3rd Stream influenced arrangements that featured Baroque style counterpoint became popular during the cool era. One lasting innovation of the cool genre is the idea of concert hall influenced 'chamber jazz' as pioneered by The Modern Jazz Quartet. For some critics, west coast jazz seemed like a souless sell-out compared to the more challenging and urban flavored be-bop of New York City. In 1952 Miles Davis was one of the first 'cool' band leaders to lead the way to a more aggressive next phase in jazz, hard bop.Cool jazz began to fade before the arrival of fusion and never made a comeback afterwards. Today Cool Jazz is a retro style that defines a certain time and place in jazz history, but is still played by some.