南方说唱（Southern hip hop），是美国嘻哈乐的一个流派，兴起于20世纪80年代晚期包括新奥尔良、休斯敦、纳什维尔、亚特兰大、孟菲斯、夏洛特及迈阿密等美国南部城市的夜店之中。该音乐流派是对自80年代以来从纽约市到加州席卷全美的嘻哈风潮的回应，可视作是继东海岸嘻哈和西海岸嘻哈之后，美国第三大主流嘻哈流派。许多早期的南部嘻哈艺人在90年代由于无法签下唱片合约，选择通过独立发行音乐或混音带。所有的 Hip-Hop 种类中，南部说唱/Hip-Hop 包括的艺人和风格是最宽泛的。从歌词上讲，南部说唱乐人的共同特点是带有浓重的地方口音。然而音乐上，在不同地区的乐队间的区别各不相同。亚特兰大的 Organized Noize Productions 的创新器乐，就很大程度地区别于新奥尔良的 Cash Money 和 No Limit 的粗旷的合成跳跃风味。而 Underground Kingz（来自德克萨斯州的休斯顿）和 Eightball & MJG（来自田纳西州的孟菲斯）这些乐队则以慷慨深情的、用吉他点缀的动感，进一步扩展了此风格的范围。历史发展：在20世纪80年代、90年代，嘻哈音乐主要由东海岸和西海岸的艺人主导。洛杉矶和纽约市是嘻哈乐受到关注的两个主要区域。80年代，南部城市开始发展嘻哈乐。来自休斯敦的说唱组合Geto Boys，是最早受到广泛关注的。南部嘻哈的源起最早可以追溯到Geto Boys在1989年的“Grip It! On That Other Level”以及1990年的专辑《The Geto Boys》，还有1991年的“We Can't Be Stopped”的成功。在他们星途大展之时，休斯敦开始成为南部嘻哈的中心。迈阿密也在南部嘻哈的兴起中扮演了重要角色，同时期兴起的知名艺人有2Live Crew、Uncle Luke等。90年代，亚特兰大成为南部嘻哈运动的中心城市。如OutKast、Goodie Mob之类的组合在很大程度上帮助南部成为嘻哈乐的一个发展中心。OutKast成员Big Boi和Andre 3000成为专辑销量能和东海岸和西海岸的说唱大腕们媲美的南部艺人。南部最为成功的厂牌则出自90年代中后期的新奥尔良。该市的嘻哈乐吸收了本地特色的Bounce音乐。这种形式最早出现在80年代末纽约说唱组合Showboyz的“Triggerman”一曲中。Cash Money唱片公司、No Limit唱片公司以及已经倒闭的Big Boy唱片公司造就了南方说唱厂牌的商业成功。他们的艺人唱片销量以百万计，并且在嘻哈圈内也获得很高的赞誉。在21世纪初，来自南方的艺人开始涌现。如T.I.、Lil Flip、卢达克里斯、Nappy Roots、Trick Daddy、Trina以及Trae都在这一时期出现在主流音乐界。2004年，OutKast以其专辑《Speakerboxxx/The Love Below》获得六项格莱美奖，其中包括最佳专辑奖。Long a third wheel to the East Coast and West Coast hip-hop scenes, Southern Rap emerged in the '90s as a fertile scene unto itself, particularly in Miami, New Orleans, and Atlanta. In the late '80s, Southern rap was primarily associated with Miami bass music, also popularly known as "booty rap" both for its rump-shaking grooves and the central preoccupation of its lyrics. Chief among its artists was Luther Campbell's 2 Live Crew, which took the sexual content of its lyrics to a hard-partying extreme, provoking outcries from pro-censorship forces across the country. The sound of Miami bass spread through the rest of the South and remained a national dance-floor staple through the '90s, with artists like Tag Team, 95 South, the 69 Boyz, Quad City DJ's, and Freak Nasty all scoring huge hit singles (albeit with lyrics far less explicit than Campbell's). Atlanta had its share of bass-heavy party rap artists, but also offered a quirkier, more distinctive (and critically acclaimed) style incorporating the funk of classic Southern soul. The cerebral Arrested Development was the first to hit the national scene in 1992, and they were followed a few years later by protégés of the harder-edged Organized Noize production squad, most notably OutKast and Goodie Mob. If Atlanta was the creative center of Southern rap, New Orleans was surely its commercial center. Master P built a lucrative empire with No Limit record label, and even if he and his roster didn't really push the envelope artistically -- most No Limit albums stuck to West Coast G-funk, Wu-Tang-style hardcore, and nothing but straight-up gangsta lyrics -- No Limit pumped out product with assembly-line efficiency and became a constant presence on the national album charts during the late '90s. Toward the end of the decade, fellow New Orleans label Cash Money and its house producer Mannie Fresh -- whose distinctive approach reworked the Southern bass sound -- scored a national breakout with Juvenile, establishing them as a legitimate rival force.