吉普赛爵士（或称摇摆吉普赛爵士）是一种爵士乐演奏风格，多数人认为由金格·莱恩哈特 （Django Reinhardt）于1930年期间开创了这种乐风。吉普赛爵士的发迹与法国息息相关，许多人也称其为"Jazz Manouche"（译为吉普赛爵士），即便在英文里也是这样称呼。这个词现在普遍指称这种音乐风格。金格被认为是1930年到1950年间，活跃于巴黎的罗姆吉他四重奏中的灵魂人物，这个四人乐团由金格、Baro兄弟和金格的兄弟约瑟夫·莱恩哈特（Joseph Reinhardt）组成。许多这种乐风的演奏家，同时也是当时著名的马赛特乐团中的一员。马赛特风格的华尔滋对吉普赛爵士影响深远。 金格将大量暗悔的半音阶与当时的摇摆乐结合，成为他的个人特色。 这样的结合使吉普赛爵士备受讨论。 此外，金格的演奏手法更奠定了现代吉普赛爵士吉他的基础。 金格所属最著名的爵士乐团Quintette du Hot Club de France ，也让爵士小提琴手Stéphane Grappelli闻名于世。Quintette du Hot Club de France最初没有鼓手，并以木吉他作为主导乐器。吉他和小提琴是主要的独奏乐器，不过单簧管、 曼陀林和手风琴也常在独奏中出现，并用节奏吉他特别的节奏手法"la pompe"来取代爵士鼓。大多数的吉普赛爵士吉他手，无论是主奏或节奏吉他手，都使用为金格量身定做的Selmer-Maccaferri吉他。吉普赛爵士的乐团，通常由主奏吉他、小提琴、两个节奏吉他和贝斯组成。不管是大型的现场演出，小型的非正式即兴演出，或如每年在法国北部的萨穆瓦叙尔塞纳举办的「金格·莱恩哈特音乐节」中演出的乐团，都忠于乐器原音的呈现。东方的吉普赛爵士乐中，节奏部的乐器通常是一或两个辛巴龙（一种匈牙利乐器），或一个辛巴龙加上一把木吉他，可能再加上一组爵士鼓，并由低音提琴当作基底。Gypsy jazz (also known as gypsy swing or hot club jazz) is a style of jazz music generally accepted to have been started by the gypsy guitarist Jean "Django" Reinhardt in and around Paris in the 1930s. Because its origins are in France and Django was from the Manouche Roma clan (although his frequent accompanists, and later solo performers/band leaders the Ferret brothers were not Manouches but Gitan Roma) it is often called by the French name, "jazz manouche", or alternatively, "manouche jazz", even in English language sources. The term is now commonly used for this style of music.Rhythm guitar in gypsy jazz uses a special form of strumming known as "la pompe", i.e. "the pump". This form of percussive rhythm is similar to the "boom-chick" in bluegrass styles; it is what gives the music its fast swinging feeling, and it most often emphasizes beats two and four; a vital feature of swing. The strumming hand, which never touches the top of the guitar, must make a quick up-down strum followed by a down strum. The up-down part of la pompe must be done extremely fast, regardless of the tempo of the music. It is very similar to a grace note in classical music, albeit an entire chord is used. This pattern is usually played in unison by two or more guitarists in the rhythm section.Another important aspect of this style of playing is based on the chord shapes Django was forced to use due to his injury. Standard barre chords are not as common in gypsy jazz. Standard major and minor chords are almost never played, and are instead replaced by major 7th chords, major 6th chords, and 6/9 chords. Gypsy reharmonisation is often aimed at giving a minor feel even where a song is in a major key, for instance the substitution of a minor 6th chord for a dominant seventh. Dominant seventh chords are also altered by lowering the 9th and 13th scale degree.Gypsy jazz has its own set of frequently played standards, which are fairly distinct from the standards tunes of mainstream jazz. However, contemporary ensembles may adapt almost any type of song to the style.Gypsy swing standards include jazz hits of the '20s and '30s, such as "Limehouse Blues", and "Dinah"; Bal Musette numbers, often waltzes; original compositions by Django Reinhardt, such as "Nuages" and "Swing 42"; compositions by other notable gypsy swing players; and jazzed-up versions of gypsy songs, such as "Dark Eyes".Much of the repertoire is in minor keys, and the dorian and harmonic minor modes are frequently heard, lending a distinctively dark and modal sound to the tunes which contrasts with the uptempo and spirited performance style. One popular example is Django's tune "Minor Swing", perhaps the most well-known gypsy jazz composition. Slower ballads and duets may feature rubato playing and exotic harmonies.