Dubstep是电子乐的一种，源于伦敦，受新千年早期的英伦车库乐影响，由AMMUNITION PROMOTIONS命名，从音乐理论来说，DUBSTEP以其黑暗色调，稀疏的节奏，和低音上的强调著称，Dubstep一开始只在当地的一些小地方传播，直到后来的2005和06年早期，由于一些网站的传播作用，才使这种类型的音乐得以保留和发展，像DUBSTEPFORUM，下载站点Barefile，还有像GUTTERBREAKZ通过博客来介绍，同时，一些杂志像THE WIRE和网络刊物PITCHFORK MEDIA对其进行了大篇幅报道，在2006年1月期间，BBC电台1的DJ MARY ANNE HOBBS开始用其来做电台秀（命名为DUBSTEP WARZ），之后人们对DUBSTEP越来越感兴趣。Dubstep is a genre of electronic dance music that originated in South London, England. The music website Allmusic has described its overall sound as "tightly coiled productions with overwhelming bass lines and reverberant drum patterns, clipped samples, and occasional vocals".The earliest dubstep releases date back to 1998 and were darker, more experimental, instrumental dub remixes of 2-step garage tracks attempting to incorporate the funky elements of breakbeat, or the dark elements of drum and bass into 2-step, which featured as B-sides of single releases. In 2001, this and other strains of dark garage music began to be showcased and promoted at London's night club Plastic People, at the "Forward" night (sometimes stylized as FWD>>), which went on to be considerably influential to the development of dubstep. The term "dubstep" in reference to a genre of music began to be used by around 2002 by labels such as Big Apple, Ammunition and Tempa, by which time stylistic trends used in creating these remixes started to become more noticeable and distinct from 2-step and grime. A very early supporter of the sound was BBC Radio 1 DJ John Peel, who started playing it from 2003 onwards. In 2004, the last year of his show, his listeners voted Distance, Digital Mystikz and Plastician (formerly Plasticman) in their top 50 for the year. Dubstep started to spread beyond small local scenes in late 2005 and early 2006; many websites devoted to the genre appeared on the internet and aided the growth of the scene, such as dubstepforum, the download site Barefiles and blogs such as gutterbreakz. Simultaneously, the genre was receiving extensive coverage in music magazines such as The Wire and online publications such as Pitchfork Media, with a regular feature entitled The Month In: Grime/Dubstep. Interest in dubstep grew significantly after BBC Radio 1 DJ Mary Anne Hobbs started championing the genre, beginning with a show devoted to it (entitled "Dubstep Warz") in January 2006.Towards the end of the decade the genre started to become more commercially successful in the UK, with more singles and remixes entering the music charts. Music journalists and critics also noticed a dubstep influence in several pop artists' work. Around this time, producers also began to fuse elements of the original dubstep sound with other influences, creating fusion genres including the slower and more experimental post-dubstep, and the harsher, electro house and heavy metal influenced brostep, the latter of which greatly contributed to dubstep's rising mainstream popularity in the United States.