“巴洛克流行”音乐出现于60年代中期，其时，包括“the Left Banke”、“the Beach Boys”在内的艺人、制作人Phil Spector、以及作曲家／编排家Burt Bacharach，所有这些来自各方的人士开始将“古典”（Classic）音乐元素融入到“摇滚”（Rock）乐中，从而达到一种远离“摇滚”乐狂野、原始根源的雄伟的管弦乐之声。层次化的和声、弦乐与号声都是“巴洛克流行”音乐的标记，还有音乐中戏剧性的（感情）强烈程度。在“巴洛克流行”音乐的起初阶段，它是截止当时的“摇滚”乐最成熟的衍生物，并且其精神继续存在于各种音乐形式中——从70年代早期的“费城灵魂”（Philly Soul）之声到相似的90年代中期的“室内流行”（Chamber Pop）之声。分层的协调，排列和喇叭是所有巴洛克流行的特点，具有强烈音乐戏剧性的，生动的特点。在它刚开始形成的时候，它是摇滚成熟的产物，它的灵魂是建立在Philly所有70年代早期的思想到90年代中期chamber pop的思想上的。Baroque Pop is a style that arose in the mid-1960s when artists such as The Beach Boys, The Left Banke, The Zombies, and producer Phil Spector began adding classical instruments such as strings and horns to their music; thus creating a more majestic, dramatic sound.Baroque Pop has undergone a revival in recent years, with Indie Pop artists such as The Decemberists and Belle and Sebastian drawing on the template laid down in the 1960s. These modern artists are usually referred to as Chamber Pop, rather than Baroque Pop.Baroque pop (sometimes called baroque rock) is a fusion genre that combines rock music with particular elements of classical music. It emerged in the mid 1960s as artists pursued a majestic, orchestral sound and is identifiable for its appropriation of Baroque compositional styles (contrapuntal melodies and functional harmony patterns) and dramatic or melancholic gestures. Harpsichords figure prominently, while oboes, French horns, and string quartets are also common.Although harpsichords had been deployed for a number of pop hits since the 1940s, starting in the 1960s, some record producers increasingly placed the instrument in the foreground of their arrangements. Inspired partly by the Beatles' song "In My Life" (1965), various groups were appropriating baroque and classical instrumentation by early 1966.The term "baroque rock" was coined in promotional material for the Left Banke, who used harpsichords and violins in their arrangements and whose 1966 song "Walk Away Renée" exemplified the style.Baroque pop's mainstream popularity faded by the 1970s, partially because punk rock, disco and hard rock took over; nonetheless, music was still produced within the genre's tradition. Philadelphia soul in the 1970s and chamber pop in the 1990s both incorporated the spirit of baroque pop while the latter contested much of the time's low fidelity musical aesthetic.