桑巴(葡萄牙语：Samba)，是源于巴西巴伊亚的一种舞蹈和音乐类型。音乐主要是由弦乐、打击乐和歌手来共同完成，而舞者则负责舞蹈的部分。桑巴是巴西最具代表性的国家象征之一。桑巴最早根源于非洲土著带有宗教仪式性的舞蹈，通过被贩卖到巴西的黑人奴隶带到巴西，再遇流传至当地的其他文化混合，渐渐反演成今日的桑巴。桑巴现已被世界公认为巴西和巴西狂欢节的象征。桑巴被认为是最大众化的巴西文化表达形式之一，已经变成巴西国家认同的符号。巴伊亚的圆圈桑巴舞(一种里约热内卢的桑巴)在2005年被联合国教科文组织列入人类非物质文化遗产代表作名录。桑巴原是非洲土著舞蹈，原是一种带有宗教仪式性的舞蹈。在16至18世纪间，葡萄牙人由非洲如安哥拉、刚果等地引进了大量黑奴至殖民地巴西，以取代巴西人与原住民不愿做的工作，而黑奴也将他们的舞蹈带入巴西。三十年代桑巴舞传入美国，由于它趣味性强，生动活泼。后来经过美国舞蹈专家们的提练和加工，在基本训练、舞步规范及编排上不断研究与改进，把它纳为拉丁舞系列的五大舞种之一，并正式定为国际标准舞的比赛项目。每逢节日，巴西城镇盛行狂欢，人们会跳起豪放而又带点即兴发挥的桑巴舞蹈，因为它那节奏活泼，一重一轻，很快便流传到欧美各大城市。桑巴风格：节拍：2/4 节奏： 每小节有2拍，第二拍为重拍。 速度：每分52-54小节。 风格：音乐欢欣，舞态生动，步伐摇曳绵密。英文简介Samba (Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈsɐ̃bɐ]) is a Brazilian dance and musical genre originating in Bahia, Brazil, and with its roots in Rio de Janeiro and Africa via the West African slave trade and African religious traditions. It is recognized around the world as a symbol of Brazil and the Brazilian Carnival. Considered one of the most popular Brazilian cultural expressions, samba has become an icon of Brazilian national identity.The Bahian Samba de Roda (dance circle), which became a UNESCO Heritage of Humanity in 2005, is the main root of the samba carioca, the samba that is played and danced in Rio de Janeiro.The modern samba that emerged at the beginning of the 20th century is predominately in a 2/4 tempo varied with the conscious use of a sung chorus to a batucada rhythm, with various stanzas of declaratory verses. Traditionally, the samba is played by strings (cavaquinho and various types of guitar) and various percussion instruments such as tamborim. Influenced by American orchestras in vogue since the Second World War and the cultural impact of US music post-war, samba began to use trombones, trumpets, choros, flutes, and clarinets.In addition to distinct rhythms and bar, samba brings a whole historical culture of food, varied dances (miudinho, coco, samba de roda, and pernada), parties, clothes such as linen shirts, and the NAIF painting of established names such as Nelson Sargento, Guilherme de Brito, and Heitor dos Prazeres. Anonymous community artists, including painters, sculptors, designers, and stylists, make the clothes, costumes, carnival floats, and cars, opening the doors of schools of samba. There are also a great tradition of Balroom samba in Brazil, with many styles. Samba de Gafieira is the style more famous in Rio de Janeiro, where comom people used to go to the gafieira parties since the 30's, and where the moves and identity of this dance has emerged, getting more and more different from its African, European, argentinian and cubam origins and influences.The Samba National Day is celebrated on December 2. The date was established at the initiative of Luis Monteiro da Costa, an Alderman of Salvador, in honor of Ary Barroso. He composed "Na Baixa do Sapateiro" even though he had never been in Bahia. Thus 2 December marked the first visit of Ary Barroso to Salvador. Initially, this day was celebrated only in Salvador, but eventually it turned into a national holiday.Samba is a local style in Southeastern Brazil and Northeast Brazil, especially in Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo, Salvador and Belo Horizonte. Its importance as Brazil's national music transcends region, however; samba schools, samba musicians and carnival organizations centered around the performance of samba exist in every region of the country and, while regional musics prevail in other regions (for instance, in Southern Brazil, Center-West Brazil, and all of the Brazilian countryside, Sertanejo, or Brazilian country music, is the most popular style).Since Rio de Janeiro is the most popular Brazilian city worldwide,usually samba is used to identify Brazilians as part of the same national culture.