布鲁斯摇滚（Blues-Rock）着重于两种明确的特征---传统的三和弦蓝调歌曲和乐器的即席创作。结合了小型爵士乐队和摇滚不断扩大的喧闹特点，传统的布鲁斯摇滚---像Cream那样由Alexis Korner 和John Mayall的传统的英国蓝调风格而来的乐队，又如美国the Paul Butterfield Blues Band和 Canned Heat—也尝试着演奏在爵士唱片和蓝调演唱会中司空见惯的长的即席创作。这种混血儿很快就流行起来，与此同时很多乐队立刻开始模仿他们，甚至比他们更喧吵和更多的重复段。在70年代早期，布鲁斯摇滚和硬核的界限越来越不清晰了，像以爵士乐为基础的ZZ Top就吸取了专辑摇滚作品的表演手法用以模糊他们的蓝调根源。不论如何，布鲁斯摇滚逐渐远离了硬核，并且有一部分的乐队仍继续演奏，重写和创作歌曲按照蓝调的标准。在80年代和90年代，蓝调摇滚比6，70年代更为坚定，即使当如Fabulous Thunderbirds 和Stevie Ray Vaughan这样的乐手玩弄起了摇滚演奏者身份。在80年代，布鲁斯摇滚已经成为像蓝调一样被认可的传统。Blues Rock is Rock that relies on the chords/scales and instrumental improvisation of Blues. The genre started in the 1960s. Artists like Yardbirds, Cream, and John Mayall's Bluesbreakers in the UK and The Allman Brothers Band, Canned Heat, and Johnny Winter in the US eventually brought the sound widespread popularity.Blues rock is a fusion genre combining elements of blues and rock. It is mostly an electric ensemble-style music with instrumentation similar to electric blues and rock: electric guitar, electric bass, and drums, often with Hammond organ. From its beginnings in the early- to mid-1960s, blues rock has gone through several stylistic shifts and along the way it inspired and influenced hard rock, Southern rock, and early heavy metal. Blues rock continues to be an influence in the 2010s, with performances and recordings by popular artists.Blues rock started with rock musicians in the United Kingdom and the United States performing American blues songs. They typically recreated electric Chicago-style blues songs, such as those by Muddy Waters, Jimmy Reed, Howlin' Wolf, and Albert King, at faster tempos and with a more aggressive sound common to rock. In the UK, the style was popularized by groups such as the Rolling Stones, the Yardbirds, and the Animals, who managed to place blues songs into the pop charts. In the US, Lonnie Mack, the Paul Butterfield Blues Band, and Canned Heat were among the earliest exponents and "attempted to play long, involved improvisations which were commonplace on jazz records".[3] John Mayall & the Bluesbreakers and Peter Green's Fleetwood Mac also developed this more instrumental, but traditional-based style in the UK, while late 1960s and early 1970s groups, including Ten Years After, Savoy Brown, the Climax Blues Band and Foghat became more hard rock oriented. In the US, Johnny Winter, the Allman Brothers Band, and ZZ Top represented a hard rock trend.