Emo（参考中译名：情绪硬核或情绪化硬核）最初是从Hardcore Punk中派生出来的一种有着艺术家气派的音乐，但在1990年代末它成为地下摇滚的一支重要力量，投合了当时的朋克和独立摇滚乐手。其他的解释包括EMO其实是“emotional”的缩写，这是一种独立的摇滚风格。还有一种叫做EMO的生活。Emo最初是从Hardcore Punk中派生出来的一种有着艺术家气派的音乐，但在1990年代末它成为地下摇滚的一支重要力量，投合了当时的朋克和独立摇滚乐手。一些Emo音乐是倾向于激进一边，其作品中充满了复杂的吉他弹奏、非传统的歌曲结构、艺术家气派的噪音和极端的乐器演奏位置的变化；还有一些Emo音乐和朋克流行乐更加接近，尽管它仍显得有一些难以理解。Emo的歌词是非常个人化的，通常不是恣意幻想的诗句便是个人的忏悔。尽管Emo确实较少男子气，但它仍是Hardcore作为追求真实和反商业主义的嫡系后代；Emo音乐确信商业倾向的音乐太过虚假和造作以至于不能表达任何真实的情感。由于Emo的理念是真实、深切可触及的情感而反对理性的分析，因此它倾向于音乐中的过多的应用较之以往更强的音高和释放，但最好的Emo音乐作品中会有一种彻底的力量使之同时具备内容性、挑战性和私密性。Since its origination in the mid-80s, Emo has undergone many changes both stylistically and in the public perception of what exactly the term means. To attempt to nail down a singular standard for all Emo here would be folly, as no such thing exists. The unifying factor that makes emo (short for emotional) what it is, is a determination to use deeply personal and sincerely expressed feelings the central theme, whether that be through furious anger and personal climax or by heartfelt confession and poetic crooning. There is general agreement that the origins of Emo grew out of the Washington, D.C. area Hardcore Punk scene, as former punk rockers looked for new forms of expression and formed the bands Rites of Spring and Embrace. The scene quickly spread to California, then across the landscape. The early Emo scene (1984-1989) sound featured mid-tempo, rock based guitar with an occassional flourish riff, and punk vocals that were sung rather than yelled. Emo was at this point still largely underground. A second wave of emo bands like Moss Icon emerged around the turn of the decade, and introduced new elements to the sound. The quiet/loud dynamic became popular, as well as catchy riff based songs featuring octave chords, pop song structure, and more mainstream, clean vocals. It could be argued that the genre's first breakout band was Sunny Day Real Estate, and this style of Emo is what has stuck in many people's heads as definitive of the style, although during this same period bands like Mohinder were playing a more abrasive, punkish Emo featuring staccato, distortion-wracked music over screamed vocals. A divergence was already apparent. From the mid-90s onward, this style of indie/post-rock-leaning Emo remained the larger sect, and spawned armies of like-minded bands. Though far removed from its roots, this incarnation has expanded the Emo fanbase into a major demographic as groups like The Get Up Kids and Dashboard Confessional carry the style toward the pop commercialism that its originators detested.