Regtime（拉格泰姆）爵士乐融合了欧洲古典音乐和欧洲军乐的特点而产生的。他打乱了古典音乐中严格的节拍规律，有演奏者掌握节奏的迟缓。乐曲的进行通常是起奏延缓，随即强调音节，这种风格在当时的钢琴演奏中极为常见。Regtime爵士乐在二十世纪出的十五年中非常盛行，虽然这种风格对爵士乐的形式具有非常重大的影响但是因为它缺乏Blues的感觉和没有即兴感觉，所以并不能称之为真正的爵士乐，但却是爵士乐发展中一种重要的音乐型态，以直立式钢琴演奏完全写谱的音乐，并强调切分音，风格略为呆板。Ragtime是一种采用黑人旋律，依切分音法(Syncopation)循环主题与变形乐句等法则，结合而成的早期爵士乐，盛行於第一次世界大战前後。其发源与圣路易斯与纽奥尔良，而後美国的南方和中西部开始流行，它影响了纽奥尔良传统爵士乐的独奏与即兴演奏风格。繁音拍子後来发展成结合流行音乐、进行曲、华尔兹与其他流行舞蹈的型式，因此繁音拍子的歌曲、乐器管弦乐队编制的曲目陆续出现，它不但在黑人乐手与乐迷间流行，也被美国白人中产阶级所接受。Ragtime – also spelled rag-time or rag time – is a musical style that enjoyed its peak popularity between 1895 and 1918. Its cardinal trait is its syncopated, or "ragged", rhythm.Technically Ragtime isn't really jazz because it does not involve improvisation, but ragtime ran a parallel career to the early New Orleans jazz and featured similar melodies and rhythms. A simple way to look at ragtime is to consider it as a form of composed jazz, or possibly America's first classical music. Likewise, in a style similar to classical music, ragtime's rhythmic syncopations don't swing quite to the degree that they do in New Orleans jazz performance. Although ragtime first appeared in 1892, Scott Joplin would begin to dominate and define the genre in 1895.The Smithsonian Collection of Classic Jazz opens with back to back renditions of Maple Leaf Rag by ragtime pianist Scott Joplin and early jazz pianist Jelly Roll Morton. In these two performances of this same piece you can clearly hear the difference between ragtime and jazz as Morton's version swings with free abandon, while Joplin's stricter version is more similar to the European late romantic period style of Chopin.Although lacking the improvisation or the blues feeling inherent in jazz, Ragtime was a strong influence on the earlier forms of jazz. At its prime from 1899-1915, ragtime is best known as totally written out piano music, though it was also performed by orchestras. Its syncopations and structure (blending together aspects of classical music and marches) hinted strongly at jazz, and many of its melodies (most notably "Maple Leaf Rag") would be played in later years by jazz musicians in a Dixieland context. -- Scott Yanow