摇摆乐不同于先前的新奥尔良爵士乐和迪克西兰爵士乐，通常乐队中的合奏更为简化，同时是作为更为成熟的独奏之间的反复演奏的连复段。而个人的即兴演奏也是主要是密切的建立在旋律的基础之上，其原因主要是由于音乐技法的进步。同以前的演奏相比，独奏的演绎更具有冒险性。在大乐队时代结束之后，摇摆乐风格的音乐家仍然坚持这种风格演出，他们的演奏堪称是一种主流的爵士乐。真正摇摆乐在流行乐坛的确立则要算是1935年Benny Goodman大乐队的成功，直至1946年大乐队时代的结束为止，摇摆乐一直是美国流行音乐的一支重要的力量。摇摆乐不同于先前的新奥尔良爵士乐和迪克西兰爵士乐，通常乐队中的合奏更为简化，同时是作为更为成熟的独奏之间的反复演奏的连复段。而个人的即兴演奏也是主要是密切的建立在旋律的基础之上，其原因主要是由于音乐技法的进步。同以前的演奏相比，独奏的演绎更具有冒险性。在大乐队时代结束之后，摇摆乐风格的音乐家仍然坚持这种风格演出，他们的演奏堪称是一种主流的爵士乐。Swing music, or simply swing, is a form of popular music developed in the United States that dominated in the 1930s and 1940s. The name swing came from the 'swing feel' where the emphasis is on the off–beat or weaker pulse in the music. Swing bands usually featured soloists who would improvise on the melody over the arrangement. The danceable swing style of big bands and bandleaders such as Benny Goodman was the dominant form of American popular music from 1935 to 1946, a period known as the swing era. The verb "to swing" is also used as a term of praise for playing that has a strong groove or drive. Notable musicians of the swing era include Louis Armstrong, Duke Ellington, Count Basie, Benny Goodman, Artie Shaw, Glenn Miller, Woody Herman, Tommy Dorsey, Jimmy Dorsey, Shep Fields, Sammy Kaye, Harry James and Cab Calloway.The Swing genre represents a golden age for jazz that showed its first signs in the mid-20s, but really peaked from the mid-30s to the mid-40s. Going well into the 20s, most jazz bands still played in New Orleans or Dixieland styles in which the musicians all improvised simultaneously while staying within the boundaries of the original tune's melody and harmony.When cornetist Louis Armstrong joined Fletcher Henderson's Orchestra in 1924, the band's arranger, Don Redman, knew he had a rare talent on his hands and began to spotlight Armstrong's melodic skills. No longer would the entire band improvise, instead Armstrong would be given the freedom to take solos to new heights while the rest of the band supplied supporting riffs. This new approach to band arranging spread and reached the public at a time when people were looking for large orchestral bands that could provide an evening's worth of dance music. Thus the golden age for big band jazz was born.From 1935 to about 1946 jazz dance bands led by the likes of Benny Goodman and Duke Ellington were the number one form of entertainment in the US. The swing era finally came to an end when new taxation laws on nightclubs made dance floors unprofitable and jazz became an entertainment for listening, not dancing.