不要将这里的Ethnic Fusion和World Fusion（爵士音乐和世界音乐的融合）以及Worldbeat（加入了西方流行音乐元素的世界音乐）搞混了。Ethnic Fusion一般是建立在New Age音乐的声音和哲学之上，是将传统的各民族音乐融入当代的电子音乐中，以期在西方的偏重技术和自然与民族的文化间找到一种和谐与平衡。爵士音乐家Tony Scott和Don Cherry可能是第一次将世界音乐合成到西方音乐体裁中；Jon Hassell的著名的音乐拓宽了这些Ethnic Fusion实验的范围，并由此在70年代促成了这种音乐类型，后来他又在80年代早期和Ambient的先驱Brian Eno进行合作。渐渐地，这种音乐类型成了当代诸多敢于冒险的器乐家们借用新鲜的节奏和非西方的乐器来拓宽自身音乐领域的一种乐衷的方式，而另外一些人则是在独特的民族音乐中加入当代器乐或是新世纪音乐的成分。后者的艺术家如Clannad（塞尔特民谣）、Ottmar Liebert（弗拉门哥）、Kitaro（日本传统音乐）和R. Carlos Nakai（美国本土笛乐）。90年代早期，Enigma, Dead Can Dance和Deep Forest又在这种音乐中引入了俱乐部跳舞节奏以及混音技术，其应用可以从欧洲中世纪音乐直到采样的非洲土著音乐。但尽管如此，这种音乐也很少可能有更大的市场突破。Ethnic Fusion is not to be confused with world fusion (a synthesis of jazz and world music) or worldbeat (which may draw from any number of world musics, often adding a Western pop influence). Instead, ethnic fusion is generally rooted in the sounds and philosophies of new age music, seeking to incorporate traditional ethnic folk musics into contemporary electronic music. Often, though not always, the aim is to find ways to create unity and harmony between Western technology and more earth- and nature-oriented cultures. Jazz musicians like Tony Scott and Don Cherry were some of the first to synthesize world music with Western forms, and minimalist composers like Terry Riley and Philip Glass sometimes drew upon non-Western scales and structures. These experiments informed early ethnic fusion, most notably the music of Jon Hassell, who helped establish the style during the late '70s and early '80s with his solo work and his collaborations with ambient pioneer Brian Eno. In time, ethnic fusion became a favorite way for adventurous contemporary instrumental musicians to broaden their sound with new rhythms or non-Western instrumentation; others came naturally to a particular ethnic music and fused it with a contemporary instrumental/new age sensibility. Artists in the latter category included Clannad (Celtic folk), Ottmar Liebert (flamenco), Kitaro (Japanese folk melodies), and R. Carlos Nakai (Native American flute music). During the early '90s, ethnic fusion artists like Enigma, Dead Can Dance, and Deep Forest found a wider audience with the introduction of club-ready dance beats into the mix, which could feature anything from medieval European music to sampled field recordings of African pygmies. But even if there were very few larger commercial breakthroughs, ethnic fusion maintained a degree of popularity through the remainder of the '90s.