比波普，亦称Bop可以看作是现代爵士的前身，由演奏摇摆乐的小乐队发展而来，注重表现演奏技巧和复杂和声，而不是演奏适合人演唱的旋律，这种风格影响了以后各种爵士乐。一种激进的爵士乐风格，可看作是现代爵士乐的前身。出现于20 世纪40 年代中期，由爵士小号手约翰· 伯克斯、古莱斯皮和萨克斯手查理· 帕克共同创立。比波普和摇摆乐最主要的区别是比波普演奏者参与即兴演奏，经常在第一个主题演奏之后就抛弃旋律，强调自由．富于冒险性．演奏速度非常快。又由于这种音乐风格的激进性，使其在出现不久之后就脱离了喜爱爵士乐和舞曲音乐的广大听众，虽大大提高了音乐的艺术性，但同时也削弱了商业价值。波普的发展为独奏和伴奏的乐手都开辟了新的天地，产生了许多新意，鼓手开始不再依恋Bass Drum,而开始大量运用Cymbal和Hi-hat.而Bass则担当低音节奏，演奏着近乎无视于人的游移四分音符低音旋律，维持着音乐的和弦进行。而钢琴手则不再过分强调左手的拍子和和弦基础音，而是喜欢用更轻的触键来演奏。这样，现代爵士的雏形就产生了。其代表乐手是Lester. Young和Coleman hawkins.Bebop or bop is a style of jazz developed in the early to mid-1940s in the United States, which features songs characterized by a fast tempo, complex chord progressions with rapid chord changes and numerous changes of key, instrumental virtuosity, and improvisation based on a combination of harmonic structure, the use of scales and occasional references to the melody.Bebop developed as the younger generation of jazz musicians expanded the creative possibilities of jazz beyond the popular, dance-oriented swing style with a new "musician's music" that was not as danceable and demanded close listening. As bebop was not intended for dancing, it enabled the musicians to play at faster tempos. Bebop musicians explored advanced harmonies, complex syncopation, altered chords, extended chords, chord substitutions, asymmetrical phrasing, and intricate melodies. Bebop groups used rhythm sections in a way that expanded their role. Whereas the key ensemble of the swing era was the big band of up to fourteen pieces playing in an ensemble-based style, the classic bebop group was a small combo that consisted of saxophone (alto or tenor), trumpet, piano, double bass, and drums playing music in which the ensemble played a supportive role for soloists. Rather than play heavily arranged music, bebop musicians typically played the melody of a song (called the "head") with the accompaniment of the rhythm section, followed by a section in which each of the performers improvised a solo, then returned to the melody at the end of the song.Bop, or be-bop in its full name, was a young jazz man's answer to the more conservative prevailingly swing music of the time. Developed in New York City during the early 40s, bop hit the international scene in 1945 and took everyone by surprise with its energetic and radical approach to swing jazz music. In the hands of innovators such as Dizzy Gillespie, Charlie Parker and Bud Powell, the old swing music was given much faster tempos and more spare accompaniments from the rhythm section which opened up space for rapid fire pyrotechnical solos. Still a favorite genre in jazz music schools around the world, many clubs still feature be-bop to this day, but today's bop sounds tamer and calmer than the original item.