流行朋克(Pop Punk)是朋克摇滚(Punk Rock)和流行音乐的一种融合，将朋克急速的节奏、变化的和弦，和流行化的旋律和歌词相结合。Pop Punk这个词最早是在何时被使用的已无从考证，但最早雏形可以追溯到上世纪70年代中后期，六七十年代的原型朋克(Proto-Punk)和电力流行(Power Pop)乐队为Pop Punk的出现铺下了基石。早期代表乐队有美国的Ramones和英国的Buzzcocks、The Undertones。到了80年代中期，一些乐队尝试把硬核朋克(Hardcore Punk)和流行音乐结合，开创了Pop Punk的一种新声音。80年代中后期，来自“加利福尼亚地下朋克圈”的Green Day、The Offspring等乐队开始在本土范围内流行。1994年，Green Day的第三张专辑《Dookie》的空前成功真正带动了90年代的“Pop Punk热潮”，使其登上了主流音乐的舞台。第二波“Pop Punk热潮”在上世纪末爆发，同样来自美国加州的Blink-182凭借99年的专辑《Enema of the State》，勇登Billboard排行榜的前十名，专辑的全球销量突破了一千五百万张，开创了Pop Punk在主流市场的巅峰地位。由地下逐渐走向主流的流行朋克，其歌词演绎内容由讽刺批判社会，转变成关于爱情、生活、流行文化等，传统朋克的“愤世嫉俗”也正在被“健康向上”的商业流行因素所取代。流行朋克也越来越受到欧美流行音乐界的追捧，因为它代表着年轻人的时髦潮流和对生活的态度。2005年开始，情绪硬核(Emo)的融入让Pop punk继续流行了几年，直至2009年开始日渐式微。带动流行朋克发展的艺人主要有Green Day、Blink-182、Simple Plan、Good Charlotte、Sum 41、Avril Lavigne、My Chemical Romance、Fall Out Boy、Paramore等。Pop punk (also known as pop-punk, punk-pop or easycore) is a fusion music genre that combines elements of punk rock with pop music to varying degrees. Pop-influenced punk rock first emerged in the mid-1970s in multiple countries, and was stylistically similar to power pop. The Ramones are generally considered among the earliest bands to merge pop melodies with punk rock, and were followed by bands such as the Buzzcocks and Bad Religion. The music typically combines fast punk tempos, chord changes and loud guitars with pop-influenced melodies and lyrical themes.By the early 1980s, several groups—most notably the Descendents, Screeching Weasel and The Vandals—merged hardcore punk with pop to create a new, faster pop punk sound. Regionally, pop punk thrived in California where independent labels adopted a do it yourself (DIY) approach to releasing their music. In the mid 1990s, Green Day and The Offspring rapidly brought mainstream acceptance to the genre, selling millions of records and receiving extensive radio and television airplay. Ska punk, which shared many characteristics with pop punk, also gained popularity with notable bands Sublime and No Doubt.A "second wave" of pop punk was spearheaded by Blink-182 in the late 1990s, who became a worldwide phenomenon by the turn of the century and represented the genre's mainstream peak. Other second wave acts such as New Found Glory, Sum 41 and Good Charlotte scored successful album chartings in the early 2000s. Fall Out Boy rose to the forefront of both emo pop and pop punk shortly thereafter, but the genre generally waned in popularity by the late 2000s. The genre still retains a smaller but dedicated following, and the Vans Warped Tour and the mall chain store Hot Topic are closely associated with the genre.