HOUSE是於八十年代沿自 DISCO发展出来的跳舞音乐。为什么会叫"House"呢?就是说只要你有简单的录音设备,在家里都做得出这种音乐~House也是电子乐中 最容易被大家所接受的. 这是芝加哥的DJ玩出的音乐， 他们将德国电子乐团Kraftwerk的一张唱片和电子鼓(Drum Machine)规律的节奏 及黑人蓝调歌声混音在一,House就产生啦,为电子舞曲最基本的型式,4/4拍的节奏, 一拍一个鼓声,配上简单的旋律,常有高亢的女声歌唱. DISCO流行后，一些DJ将它改变，有心将DISCO变得较为不商业化， BASS和鼓变得更深沈， 很多时变成了纯音乐作品，即使有歌唱部分也多数是由跳舞女歌手唱的简短句子，往往没有明确歌词。 渐渐的，有人加入了LATIN(拉丁)、 REGGAE(瑞格源在西印度群岛)、 RAP(说唱)或 JAZZ(爵士)等元素， 至八十年代后期， HOUSE冲出地下范围，成为芝加哥、纽约及伦敦流行榜的宠儿。 Cher唱的Believe 就是个好例子.而M-People可说是House代表团体.House舞曲在1986年开始流行后,可说是取代了Disco音乐. House可分为： Acid House 也就是融合了TB-303的Acid声的House乐 Deep House 有着相当浓厚的灵魂唱腔,又叫作Garage,蛮流行化的. 像Real Mecoy, M-People, La Bouche都是Garage团体. Hard House 简单来说,就是节奏较重,较猛的House. Progressive House 这类House没啥灵魂唱腔,反而比较注重旋律和乐曲编排.有一 点像"演奏类"的House乐. 像SASH!的专辑It''s My Life便是很好的Progressive House专辑. Epic House 就是"史诗"House. Epic House有着优美,流畅的旋律和磅礴的气势, 很少会有vocal在里面(几乎是没有!). BT的音乐就是很棒的Epic House,而他也被称作"Epic House天皇". 其实连Rock也有"Epic Rock" Trible House 想像一下:带有非洲原始风貌或是印地安人的鼓奏的House是啥样? 这就是Trible House~ 这种House除了有一般House稳定的节奏外,在每拍之间,会加入一些带有原始风貌,零碎的鼓点. 蛮有趣的~ 不过,House的范围太广了,大家也不用硬要把一首曲子分类.这些只是告诉大家,House很多种"而已。 到了九十年代， HOUSE已减少了那前卫、潮流色彩，但仍是很受欢迎的音乐。House music grew out of the post-disco dance club culture of the early '80s. After disco became popular, certain urban DJs -- particularly those in gay communities -- altered the music to make it less pop-oriented. The beat became more mechanical and the bass grooves became deeper, while elements of electronic synth pop, Latin soul, dub reggae, rap, and jazz were grafted over the music's insistent, unvarying four-four beat. Frequently, the music was purely instrumental and when there were vocalists, they were faceless female divas that often sang wordless melodies. By the late '80s, house had broken out of underground clubs in cities like Chicago, New York, and London, and had begun making inroads on the pop charts, particularly in England and Europe but later in America under the guise of artists like C+C Music Factory and Madonna. At the same time, house was breaking into the pop charts; it fragmented into a number of subgenres, including hip-house, ambient house, and most significantly, acid house (a subgenre of house with the instantly recognizable squelch of Roland's TB-303 bass-line generator). During the '90s, house ceased to be cutting-edge music, yet it remained popular in clubs throughout Europe and America. At the end of the decade, a new wave of progressive house artists including Daft Punk, Basement Jaxx, and House of 909 brought the music back to critical quarters with praised full-length works.