深度放克是一种朦胧地录制方克乐曲的形式。基本上也只有狂热的收藏家和乐迷们会对它感兴趣。就好像南方灵魂乐(也叫深度灵魂乐)，深度方克可以唤起方克音乐中那种强烈的，只属于美国黑人文化的韵味。它同时也给人感觉像是仅仅属于唱片收藏家的压箱宝底。它可以是清唱或者纯乐器演奏，但其精髓在于韵律、抑扬和音符本身，而不是写歌的过程。深度方克鲜于做形式上的革新，而基本上只从像James Brown或者the Meters这样的方克乐大师中才能体现其价值；或是根据作曲家们对于音乐认知度的差异，进入更加爵士味，更加即兴的领域。一些深度方克的歌曲曾经在大唱片公司的发碟中出现过，但被混搭并埋没在其它曲风中了。它们中的另一些歌曲则在发行量可怜的独立唱片制作中被筛选出了局。但不管是哪种情况，深度方克代表的是方克乐的根基。就好像是六十年代的那些美国地下乐队在车库里狂热地录制他们所喜爱的英伦或者迷幻乐。它们中的一些是神作，一些算是好歌，当然也有使人过耳即忘的。美国人对于深度方克的旧情复燃是跟说嘻哈的兴起息息相关的。由于当时的人们贪婪地寻找那些可以用来录制深度方克的新鲜或者稀有的“母版”歌曲，甚至是那种英国北部的灵魂乐俱乐部内所特有的味道，都被挖掘出来了。受益于这种“淘金运动”，美国人在不经意间发现了一些珍贵的乡村爵士乐和偏甜的灵魂乐中具有代表性的老碟。当这种运动达到变态的巅峰时，深度方克的收藏家们甚至都已经不在乎藏品的真实价值了，而只看重绝版或者发行量的稀少，从而享受于涉猎此种唱片的过程。这其实挺容易办到的，因为世人甚至连他们收集的这些曲目听都没有听过。结果呢，就有些收藏家和DJ们为了一些着实普通的唱片却付出了高昂的代价。虽然正宗的深度方克是单曲发行的，但诸如Goldmine、 BBE和Stones Throw这样的唱片行以及Scottish DJ Keb Darge这样的编辑也在极大的程度上帮助这种以单曲发行为主的深度方克最终走向CD的时代立下了汗马功劳。Deep funk is a term used to describe obscure funk recordings that appeal mostly to zealous collectors and groove fanatics. Like deep soul, the term deep funk can evoke the strongly African-American essence of the music, but deep funk also carries the connotation of a collector digging through crates of old records, looking for that special rare, underground find. It can be vocal or instrumental, but in most cases, it's about rhythm, groove, and musicianship, not songwriting. Deep funk rarely innovates within the form, generally taking its cues from the hard, lean brand of funk epitomized by James Brown and the Meters, or -- depending on the level of musicianship -- moving into jazzier, more improvisational territory. Some of it was recorded for major labels and lost in the shuffle, and some was cut for small independent labels with poor distribution. Whatever the specifics, deep funk represents the sound of funk on its most elemental, grass-roots level; it's something akin to the way '60s garage bands enthusiastically copied their favorite British Invasion or psychedelic records -- some was truly inspired, some just competent, some instantly forgettable. The revival of interest in deep funk is closely tied to the hip-hop movement in America, with its ravenous appetite for fresh sample material, and to the rare groove and Northern soul club scenes in Britain, which place a premium on rediscovering vintage American musical artifacts (in funky jazz and sweet-leaning soul, respectively). In their worst leanings, deep funk collectors are concerned more with the object than the substance, prizing the thrill of the hunt and the single's rarity above its quality -- which is easy to do, since not many people have heard these tracks to begin with. The result is that some collectors and DJs wind up paying exorbitant prices for mediocre music. But at its best, deep funk is about giving credit to the unfairly overlooked -- discovering great grooves and tight combos that really did stack up musically. Although deep funk's true format is the vinyl single, labels like Goldmine, BBE, and Stones Throw, and compilers like Scottish DJ Keb Darge, have helped bring the pleasures of the funky 45 into the CD age.