jazz即爵士乐源于蓝音，是一种从前居住在美国南部的非洲奴隶以及他们的后代们的民间音乐。蓝调深受西非文化和音乐传统的影响，这些奴隶也逐渐成为移居到城市的黑人的音乐家.爵士乐的真正起源是贫穷。 1865年，美国内战结束，往日黑人奴隶获得了自由，但是生活依然困苦。他们多数是文盲，唯有靠自己故土培植出的音乐娱乐自己。劳动的号子和农田歌曲是在采摘棉花时候唱的，赞美诗歌和圣歌是在种族隔离的教堂里聚会时唱的，而即兴之作则是独唱歌手在一只班卓琴伴奏下吟唱的。在教堂中，黑人牧师借用英国领唱方式来解决唱歌不懂字的问题。上世纪之交流行的音乐会标准的形式，也就是当时军乐团和舞曲乐队的音乐影响了最早的爵士乐的主流表达方式。这些音乐的乐器：铜管乐器，簧管乐器和鼓成为了爵士乐的基本乐器。爵士乐(Jazz)以其极具动感的切分节奏、个性十足的爵士音阶和不失章法的即兴演奏（或演唱）赢得了广大听众的喜爱，同时也得到了音乐领域各界人士的认可。它以布鲁斯和拉格泰姆为源头，经过整整一个世纪的发展，如今已是异彩纷呈、百花齐放。自从1917年第一张爵士唱片诞生以来,它便显示出了巨大的发展潜力。20世纪初的新奥尔良爵士乐 、30 年代大乐队演奏的摇摆乐、40年代的比博普爵士、40 年代末的冷爵士、50年代的硬博普、60 年代的自由爵士、70 年代以后的摇滚爵士，而后拉丁爵士、融合爵士、爵士放克…… 一张张不同风格的爵士唱片汇成了一部爵士乐发展史。Jazz is a music genre that originated in the African-American communities of New Orleans, United States, in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, and developed from roots in blues and ragtime. Jazz is seen by many as "America's classical music". Since the 1920s Jazz Age, jazz has become recognized as a major form of musical expression. It then emerged in the form of independent traditional and popular musical styles, all linked by the common bonds of African-American and European-American musical parentage with a performance orientation. Jazz is characterized by swing and blue notes, call and response vocals, polyrhythms and improvisation. Jazz has roots in West African cultural and musical expression, and in African-American music traditions including blues and ragtime, as well as European military band music. Intellectuals around the world have hailed jazz as "one of America's original art forms"Classic Jazz refers more to a transitional era (1920s), rather than any specific style. During the 1920s jazz slowly shifted from the exuberant New Orleans and Dixieland styles toward a more sophisticated and urbane swing style. Many artists who participated in this transition had careers that overlapped into Dixieland in the early 20s, and into swing in the middle 30s. Not only was the music shifting during this time, but the performing ensembles were growing bigger as more dance orchestras began to use jazz elements creating a big band jazz/pop hybrid that would lead to the classic big bands of the swing era.The leaders of classic 1920s jazz are orchestra leader Fletcher Henderson and his star soloist, Louis Armstrong. The Henderson orchestra did away with the constant polyphonic soloing of New Orleans jazz and replaced it with cool relaxed riffing which provided a background for Armstrong's expressive melodies and exciting solos. Classic jazz is still played by jazz lovers all over the world, although not always with the right feel.