Indie Pop起源于20世纪80年代初期的英国。你可以把Indie Pop看作是一种更有旋律、更少吵杂以及更少焦虑的Indie Rock类型，它所折射的是地下音乐柔和、唯美的一面。Indie Pop的音乐更着重于声音的融洽、音乐的编排以及歌词的创作。在从Chamber Pop华美的管弦乐编曲到Twee Pop的简单直率中，Indie Pop所包含的一切，其焦点或者说这种音乐的侧重点一如都是歌曲多于声响。尽管Indie Pop和Indie Rock都信奉朋克的D.I.Y（Do It Yourself）精神，但是前者反对朋克的虚无主义态度以及音乐上的声音碾磨处理。注：独立流行乐可以是一个宽泛的概念，它可以囊括一大堆具有分明特点的有着独立流行气质的音乐，比如Chamber Pop、Dream Pop、Twee Pop&C86等等，但是由于这些音乐都有着各自的特别气质，所以它们又都自成一派，因此也就有相对应的音乐风格术语来更加确切地描述它们。那么从另一个角度来看，那些不足以形成一派的独立流行乐将会呈现出一种多样化的音乐气质，此时，我们可以把这些理解为狭义上的独立流行乐。注意，即使是狭义上的独立流行乐，藉着音乐自身的多变性以及融合性，它也不可以被一种表达所能具体地确切描述。Indie pop is a genre of alternative rock music that originated in the United Kingdom in the mid-1980s, with its roots in Scottish post-punk bands on the Postcard Records label in the early '80s (Josef K and Orange Juice) and the dominant UK independent band of the mid-'80s, The Smiths. Indie pop was inspired by punk's DIY ethic and related ideologies, and it generated a thriving fanzine, label, and club and gig circuit. Indie pop differs from indie rock to the extent that it is more melodic, less abrasive, and relatively angst-free.The term "indie" had been used for some time to describe artists on independent labels (and the labels themselves), but the key moment in the naming of "indie pop" as a genre was the release of NME's C86 tape in 1986. The compilation featured, among other artists, Primal Scream, The Pastels, and The Wedding Present, and "indie" quickly became shorthand for a genre whose defining conventions were identified as jangling guitars, a love of '60s pop, and melodic power pop song structures (the genre was initially dubbed "C86" after the tape itself).In the mid to late '80s, indie pop was criticized for its associations with so-called "shambling" (a John Peel-coined description celebrating the self-conscious primitive approach of some of the music) and underachievement, but the C86 indie pop scene is now recognized as a pivotal moment for independent music in the UK, as is recognized in the subtitle of that compilation's 2006 extended reissue: CD86: 48 Tracks from the Birth of Indie Pop. Indie pop continues to have a strong following and inspire musicians, not just in the UK but around the world, with new bands, labels and clubs devoted to the sound.