NUJAZZ（新兴爵士）：爵士面新的型态，融合电子音乐为主，也就是所谓的Nu-Jazz。Nu Jazz于90年代后期形成，是一种将Jazz架构或是Jazz演奏透过电子手法表现出的一种音乐,有时称之为电子爵士Electro Jazz或者Jazz House等等），但Nu Jazz并无较明确的模式，有时候可能运用真实乐器演奏，有时透过电子手法来表现21世纪的爵士风貌，有时艺人们（或是DJS）又会给JAZZ加入不同类型的音乐元素,例如:funk, Soul, electronic dance和一些即兴创作等等。使JAZZ乐变得多元化，所以NU-JAZZ（NU JAZZ）有时候可分做electronic jazz, electro-jazz, e-jazz,jazztronica, jazz house, phusion, "neo-jazz" ,future jazz.例如像是来自法国的St.German和来自德国的Jazznova等，都是当时NUJAZZ领域中的佼佼者。Nu Jazz基本上比起它的表亲Acid Jazz更朝电子领域延伸，不管它是加入了Hip Hop，House，Drum & Bass或是Broken beat等节奏元素，但基本调性仍然离不开Jazz架构。Nu jazz, also known as jazztronica, is a genre of jazz and contemporary electronic music. The term was coined in the late 1990s to refer to music that blends jazz elements with other musical styles, such as funk, soul, electronic music, and free improvisation.Nu jazz grew out of the combined influences of Jon Hassel’s Kiranic trumpet playing and ‘fourth world’ rhythms, Miles Davis’ soft tone and use of ambience on “In a Silent Way”, and the early 90s intersection of jazz and electronica, particularly trip-hop, dub and down-tempo. Some early Nu Jazz artists include Nils Petter Molvaer and Bugge Wesseltoft. Over time, other influences were introduced to the Nu Jazz sound.For a time, the jangling ambient guitar sound of post-rock was a big influence on Nu Jazz, but that has mostly faded now. Meanwhile, bands like Jagga Jazzist and Snarky Puppy have re-discovered the lush orchestrations of sophisticated easy listening and exotica arrangers such as Henry Mancini and Les Baxter. Yet another influence, one that has emerged from the sound of the popular Portico Quartet and others, is the use of repeating minimalist phrases. This use of short repeating melodic phrases not only comes from minimalist composers such as Steve Reich and Phillip Glass, but also from Zeuhl artists and a long history of European art rock. An influence from ambient music is also part of the Nu Jazz genre, this can be found in the early music of Nils Petter Molvaer, as well as others. Nick Bartsch is a popular Nu Jazz artist who often combines the repeating figures of minimalism with a dub reggae style ambiance.All of the above mentioned influences may appear on a Nu Jazz album, but not necessarily all. As Nu Jazz continues to develop, the most constant factors tend be a relaxed 'cool' approach, an influence from modern electronica and an appreciation for ironic kitsch and retro sounds. Some early precedents for Nu Jazz can found in the Terry Riley influenced ambient sections on Soft Machine's IIIrd album, Brian Eno's use of Brand X's funk/fusion backing tracks in building his late 70s ambient art rock albums, and Miles Davis' lengthy "He Loved Him Madly" from his "Get Up With It" album.Although there are musical differences between Nu Jazz and Contemporary Jazz, from a pop-culture standpoint, the more obvious difference between the two is Nu Jazz’s self-aware ’hipster’ stance, compared to Contemporary Jazz’s more emotionally earnest approach.