硬核朋克是朋克摇滚中最强硬最极端的一个变种.属于极端摇滚。硬核朋克诞生于七十年初，它把朋克摇滚进一步引向极端——更快、更噪、更僵硬的演奏，喊叫式的演唱、邋遢肮脏的录音效果（有时也包括专辑封套）。这种音乐极其之快速，旋律简单,录制质量水平不高,歌手简直就是在叫喊,叠句很简单,作品看起来(或者听起来)就像是在在什么人家的地下室里录制的.大多数这类乐队相互之间听起来都相似得另人难以置信,但也多少有一些带有与众不同的声音抛在身后,而仅仅保留其观念.硬核朋克最初产生于美国,主要是一种美国的现象,并且主要集中在洛杉矶和纽约地区,但在美国的全境内还有一些小规模的零星分布,先后涌现了BlackFlag、HuskerDu、Descendents、MeatPuppets、DeadKennydys、BadBrains等著名的硬核乐队。而硬核在整个领域的影响面之广，是很少有风格可以望其项背的。硬核的发展甚至影响了整个八十年代的金属圈子，启发了整个黄金时代。当时几乎每种风格的发展都渗透着HardCore的影子，尽管有的很多喜欢技术派的人不愿意承认，可激流金属本身就是硬核与传统金属的结合产物。启发了激流金属的元老VENOM的，早期激流金属乐队EXODUS，甚至荷兰死亡金属元老THANATOS，美国老派死亡金属乐队Nunslaughter等一干早期乐队，都在接受采访时承认他们曾受到过硬核的影响。甚至一些激流金属乐队干脆加强了自己编曲中的硬核成分，造就了Crossover这一激流金属中非常重要的风格。Witches Hammer这样的加拿大地下硬核乐队也曾经坦言，80年代早期你能在加拿大罗斯湾看到身着Slayer服装的鸡冠头，激流金属演出现场也经常聚集一些喜欢硬核的人。因为有着同样疯狂的Riff。在现场音乐界限很模糊。而金属和硬核的分家直到1986年才开始。.核心朋克继续出现在90年代,而且继续没有汇入主流圈子,可是一些受到"核心朋克美学"影响的乐队包括Nirvana为代表的一批新人成为90年代主要的摇滚明星,而早期的那些核心朋克乐手如Bob Mould,Henry Rollins,Mike Watt,Ian McKaye和Dinosaur Jr.乐队的J Mascis却转变成了另类音乐的偶像,核心朋克的不少观念和特点也被其他不少同时代的风格吸收和转化(如重金属和电子乐领域).另外,核心朋克还有一个更加快速,吵闹,非旋律性,有暴力倾向和白人至上主义倾向的分支——"Oi".硬核朋克虽然对以后众多的摇滚风格产生了深远的影响，但一直没有主流化，这种情况一直持续到了今天。Hardcore Punk (often referred to as simply Hardcore) is a derivation of Punk Rock that appeared during the late 1970s and early 1980s. Hardcore initially borrowed much from Punk's original music framework and energy and made it faster, heavier and more aggressive, while retaining Punk's anti-establishment image and DIY ethics/practices. Other common characteristics include an extensive use of yelling and/or screaming, a stripped-down style of production (also inherited from many earlier Punk acts) and the prevalence of short-length songs. Hardcore Punk has been associated with the releases of independently-run record labels such as Dischord Records, SST Records, and Alternative Tentacles, and acts such as Adolescents, Bad Brains, Black Flag, Circle Jerks, Dead Kennedys, Fear, The Germs, Minor Threat, and Scream. While in its beginnings the genre was mainly a phenomenon rooted in the American underground music circuit, the term has also been applied to the works of non-U.S. bands from this era. These include D.O.A. from Canada; Discharge, G.B.H. and Rudimentary Peni from the United Kingdom and a Japanese Hardcore scene represented by groups like G.I.S.M. and The Stalin. The genre would eventually splinter into other subgenres and derivative forms in a similar manner as Punk Rock did, some of which still remain rooted in the original Hardcore style. The interest of several Hardcore Punk musicians in various Metal genres played an important role in the creation of various new styles, exemplified by Crossover Thrash, Crust Punk, Grindcore, Metalcore, and New York Hardcore. The dissatisfaction of various Hardcore-rooted and associated musicians by the constraints of the genre and their growing attention for diverse forms of music (including Jazz, Experimental Rock, Dub, Funk and Post-Punk) derived in the creation of Post-Hardcore, which sought to experiment with the Hardcore template and dynamics. The focus given by some bands to melodic exploration would result in Melodic Hardcore. Beatdown Hardcore would be the result of much more slower tempos and increased breakdowns. Although Hardcore Punk has mantained cult status for most of its existence, it has been seminal for the development of several other (and more popular) genres, many of them outside of Punk Rock. Examples include Grunge, Pop Punk, Sludge Metal, Riot Grrrl, Alternative Metal and Thrash Metal (itself an influence for several Hardcore Punk styles).