老派说唱指的是说唱的初创时期，在 1979-84 期间，当时的节拍更直接，重点在于娱乐，而不是对社会的诠释或讲述堕落的故事。老派说唱的全盛期是由 Sugarhill Gang 的劲曲 "Rapper's Delight" 开始的，随后走红的分别是一些其它单曲，而非某一位艺人。U.T.F.O 的 "Roxanne Roxanne"，Whodini 的 "Freaks Come Out At Night" 和 Kurtis Blow的 "Basketball" 在此期间尽享成功，但是被流行主流所记住的主要是热门单曲，而没有包括他们广泛的其他作品。几个现代乐队如 the Arsonists 和 Jurassic 5 有着明显的老派说唱音调，为新一代听众介绍 B-boy 的精髓，如高能量的合成音韵以及 DJ 的重要性。Old-School Rap is the style of the very first rap artists who emerged from New York City in the late '70s and early '80s. Old school is easily identified by its relatively simple raps — most lines take up approximately equal amounts of time, and the rhythms of the language rarely twisted around the beats of the song. The cadences usually fell squarely on the beat, and when they didn't, they wouldn't stray for long, returning to the original pattern for quick resolution. The emphasis was not on lyrical technique, but simply on good times — aside from the socially conscious material of Grandmaster Flash, which greatly expanded rap's horizons, most old-school rap had the fun, playful flavor of the block parties and dances at which it was born. In keeping with the laid-back, communal good vibes, old-school rap seemed to have more room and appreciation for female MCs, although none achieved the higher profile ofGrandmaster Flash & the Furious Five or the Sugarhill Gang. Some old-school songs were performed over disco or funk-style tracks, while others featured synthesized backing (this latter type of music, either with or without raps, was known as electro). Old-school rap's recorded history begins with two 1979 singles, Fatback's "King Tim III" and the Sugarhill Gang's "Rapper's Delight," although the movement had been taking shape for almost a decade prior. Sugarhill Records quickly became the center for old-school rap, dominating the market until Run-D.M.C. upped the ante for technique and hardcore urban toughness in 1983-84. Their sound and style soon took over the rap world, making old-school's party orientation and '70s funk influences seem outdated. When compared with the more complex rhythms and rhyme schemes of modern-day rap — or even the hip-hop that was being produced less than ten years after "Rapper's Delight" — old-school rap can sound dated and a little unadventurous. However, the best old-school tracks retain their liveliness as great party music no matter what the era, holding up surprisingly well considering all that's happened since.