英式摇滚（英语：Britpop）是另类摇滚的类型之一，源自於英国九零年代初期的独立音乐圈，其中以几个受到英国六七零年代吉他流行乐影响的乐团最具代表性。这种音乐类型，发展成为对抗八零年代末及九零年初期音乐及文化的潮流，特别是针对来自美国的Grunge风潮。随著美国Grunge乐团入侵，新兴的英国乐团如Suede和Blur首先发声，自诩为反对派的音乐力量，延续过去英国吉他流行乐风，并且在歌曲中特别写入关於英国的主题。所谓"Britpop"，可以直接翻译成“英式摇滚”或“英伦摇滚”。britpop作为一种音乐类型，自然难以被绝对化定义，所以以下定义都是相对而言。 典型的britpop由吉它，贝司，鼓组成。当中吉他是核心，通常以简单，略带迷幻色彩的扫弦为主，其和弦走向亦主导全曲；贝司负责低音部分的旋律，通常演奏和弦中的琶音；鼓多以中速演奏。从曲风上看，britpop继承了beatles时代以来的吉他流行风格，又吸纳了60年代晚期Kinks的田园之声，中速音乐（the Who, the Small Faces），70年代的迷幻（David Bowie, T.Rax, Roxy Music），朋克和新浪潮（the Jam, the Buzzcocks, Wire, Madness, XTC, Squeeze, Elvis Costello），还有the Smiths的另类吉他流行。从内容上看，britpop大多演唱同时代英国青年自己的生活，色彩多以黯淡，颓靡，桀骜为主，也由此在短时期内迅速风靡英伦三岛。Britpop is a UK based music and culture movement in the mid 1990s which emphasised "Britishness", and produced brighter, catchier alternative rock, partly in reaction to the popularity of the darker lyrical themes of the US-led grunge music, an alternative rock genre, and to the UK's own shoegazing music scene.The most successful bands linked with the movement are Oasis, Blur, Suede and Pulp; those groups would come to be known as its "big four".The timespan of Britpop is generally considered to be 1993-1997, with 1994-1995, and a chart battle between Blur and Oasis dubbed "The Battle of Britpop", being the epicentre of activity.[6] While music was the main focus, fashion, art, and politics also got involved, with artists such as Damien Hirst being involved in creating videos for Blur, and being labelled as Britart or Britpop artists,and Tony Blair and New Labour aligning themselves with the movement.Though Britpop is viewed as a marketing tool, and more of a cultural moment than a musical style or genre,there are musical conventions and influences the bands grouped under the Britpop term have in common, such as showing elements from the British pop music of the Sixties, glam rock and punk rock of the Seventies, and indie pop of the Eighties in their music. Britpop was a media driven focus on bands which emerged from the independent music scene of the early 1990s—and was associated with the British popular cultural movement of Cool Britannia which evoked the Swinging Sixties and the British guitar pop music of that decade.In the wake of the musical invasion into the United Kingdom by American grunge bands, new British groups such as Blur and Suede launched the movement by positioning themselves as opposing musical forces, referencing British guitar music of the past and writing about uniquely British topics and concerns. These bands were soon joined by others including Oasis, Pulp, the Verve, Supergrass, Cast, Sleeper and Elastica.Britpop is a subgenre of alternative rock that originated in the United Kingdom. Britpop emerged from the British independent music scene of the early 1990s and was characterised by bands influenced by British guitar pop music of the 1960s and 1970s. The movement developed as a reaction against various musical and cultural trends in the late 1980s and early 1990s, particularly the grunge phenomenon from the United States. In the wake of the musical invasion into the United Kingdom of American grunge bands, new British groups such as Suede and Blur launched the movement by positioning themselves as opposing musical forces, referencing British guitar music of the past and writing about uniquely British topics and concerns. These bands were soon joined by others including Oasis, Pulp, Supergrass, Sleeper and Elastica.Britpop groups brought British alternative rock into the mainstream and formed the backbone of a larger British cultural movement called Cool Britannia. Although its more popular bands were able to spread their commercial success overseas, especially to the United States, the movement largely fell apart by the end of the decade.