迷幻摇滚（英文：Psychedelic rock）是一种摇滚乐流派，其源自迷幻文化及使用迷幻药而产生的思维骤变。迷幻摇滚涌现于1960年代的英美，与车库摇滚及民谣摇滚乐团属同一时期。迷幻摇滚介于早期以蓝调为基础的摇滚音乐，至前卫摇滚、艺术摇滚、实验摇滚、硬摇滚，甚至重金属间的过渡时期。迷幻摇滚同时并融入了非西方的音乐元素，如印度音乐的拉加（ragas）与西塔尔琴（sitars）。迷幻摇滚指受吸毒产生的幻觉体验激发而创作的摇滚音乐，通常可以和“Psychedelic Rock）一词通用。1966年，“第十三层电梯”（Thirteenth Floor Elevators）演唱组在奥斯丁出版了第一张专辑，旧金山的“杰弗逊飞机”（JEFFERSON AIRPLANE）乐队紧随其后，而“数五下”（Count Five）的《疯子的反应》（Psychotic Reaction）进入了排行榜前5名。电台DJ对此类音乐的大力宣传使歌手们深受鼓舞，竞相效尤，纷纷用大量模糊的电吉他声、反馈噪音、电子合成器声以及单纯的高分贝噪音充斥自己的作品，以此模拟想象中大麻和麦角酸酰二乙酸（LSD）带给人的种种放纵迷幻的感觉。盛行于60 年代中、后期，是嬉皮士运动的产物之一。其音乐特色是震耳欲聋的强烈节奏、尖厉响亮的电吉它单人或双人演奏。不同于重金属摇滚，迷幻摇滚没有一定的曲式，即兴演奏的成分较多，其无旋律的音调变化多端，常常富有精彩华妙的表现。“酸性”（acid) 一词是迷幻剂LSD的俚语代名词，酸性摇滚因为具有狂热的迷幻音乐特点，故有其名。代表乐手、乐队有：Jimi Hendrix、Jefferson Airplane、the beatles、the Doors、the Greatful Dead,Pink Floyd等。这些组合其歌迷都蓄长发、着彩色鲜艳的服装，持有反世俗的态度，这种外在表现与音乐一样重要。Psychedelic rock is a style of rock music that is inspired or influenced by psychedelic culture and attempts to replicate and enhance the mind-altering experiences of psychedelic drugs. It often uses new recording techniques and effects and draws on non-Western sources such as the ragas and drones of Indian music.It was pioneered by musicians including The Beatles, The Byrds, and The Yardbirds, emerging as a genre during the mid 1960s among folk rock and blues rock bands in the United Kingdom and United States, such as Grateful Dead, Jefferson Airplane, The Jimi Hendrix Experience, Cream, The Doors and Pink Floyd. It reached a peak in between 1967 and 1969 with the Summer of Love and Woodstock Rock Festival, becoming an international musical movement and associated with a widespread counter-culture, before beginning a decline as changing attitudes, the loss of some key individuals and a back-to-basics movement, led surviving performers to move into new musical areas.Psychedelic rock influenced the creation of psychedelic pop and psychedelic soul. It also bridged the transition from early blues- and folk music-based rock to progressive rock, glam rock, hard rock and as a result influenced the development of sub-genres such as heavy metal. Since the late 1970s it has been revived in various forms of neo-psychedelia.