酸爵士（英语：Acid Jazz），又译迷幻爵士，源于英国英格兰南部，是爵士乐的一种分支音乐类型，结合了部分灵魂乐、放克音乐（Funk）和迪斯科成分，尤其是循环拍子和调式和声方面。它在1980年-1990年间开始发展，由最初类似爵士放克（Jazz-funk）风格，转型至类似电子舞曲和波普音乐的混合。吉尔斯·彼得森（Gilles Peterson）和埃迪·皮尔勒（Eddie Piller）也成立了一家同样名为“酸爵士”（Acid Jazz Record，简称 Acid Jazz）的英国唱片公司，旗下歌手皆会唱酸爵士音乐。唱片公司愿意专为酸爵士出唱片，可见它很受欢迎（见右图）。酸爵士包含很多电子音乐元素，而且很适合作现场即兴改版演出，所以歌手都很喜欢在其演唱会演唱酸爵士歌曲。英格兰乐队“匿名者”（Incognito）和“新重骑兵”（Brand New Heavies）的演唱尤其着重酸爵士的和弦特质。酸爵士的发展也可算作爵士放克、灵魂爵士的复兴。因为多种乐器可作现场即兴演出，加上酸爵士特殊的编曲模式，让唱片骑师的“刮擦”技术得以体现 ─ 这协助诺曼·杰伊（Norman Jay）、吉尔斯·彼得森、帕特里克·福奇（Patrick Forge）等唱片骑师打响知名度。酸爵士的常用乐器包括：萨克斯管、小号、长号、单簧管、钢琴、吉他、低音提琴、鼓。酸性爵士这类音乐是成长在爵士、funk、hip-hop之间的音乐。酸性爵士有三个基本元素：它作为一个极富力度的撞击而存在，起初的风格类似于爵士和非洲古巴舞曲，但是它又固执的游离在funk,hip-hop和舞曲音乐之间。1998年，最初它出现在作为美国唱片的说明性短语和重新发行的70年代的英语歌收录辑系列的标题中，被Brits称作在80年代中期再现的特别的夹缝音乐。Acid jazz is a musical genre that combines elements of jazz, funk and hip-hop, particularly looped beats. It developed in the UK over the 1980s and 1990s and could be seen as tacking the sound of jazz-funk onto electronic dance: jazz-funk musicians such as Roy Ayers, Donald Byrd and Grant Green are often credited as forerunners of acid jazz. Acid jazz has also experienced minor influences from soul, house, and disco.While acid jazz often contains various types of electronic composition (sometimes including sampling or live DJ cutting and scratching), it is just as likely to be played live by musicians, who often showcase jazz interpretation as part of their performance. The compositions of groups such as Jamiroquai, Galliano, Urban Species, The Brand New Heavies and Incognito often feature chord structures usually associated with jazz music.The acid jazz "movement" is also seen as a revival of jazz-funk or jazz fusion or soul jazz by leading DJs such as Norman Jay or Gilles Peterson or Patrick Forge, also known as "rare groove crate diggers" or "Cataroos".Q magazine stated "Acid jazz was the most significant jazz form to emerge out of the British music scene".Jazz music community with review and forumsAcid jazz grew out of the late 80s DJ scene in London in which record spinners would treat dancing patrons to difficult to find 45s released by 60s soul jazz artists. Eventually contemporary lounge/jazz performers such as James Taylor began to capitalize on this interest in 60s 'rare groove' and began to perform live music that had equal appeal for the trendy club crowd. Another aspect of early Acid Jazz involved the mixing of 60s RnB-jazz with the sounds and rhythms of acid house. Once Acid Jazz left England, confusion as to what it actually was created a diversity of influences including dub reggae, hip-hop, drumnbass and 60s psychedelic rock. More recently Acid Jazz is often seen as either 60s rare groove, or a merging of jazz with trip-hop or other club friendly electronica sounds and rhythms.Typically the artists listed in JMA's acid jazz genre are live bands while acid jazz artists who are more DJ based are listed in our DJ/Electronica jazz genre.