默西之声是英式入侵的音乐源头，它强劲而有旋律性，是美国的摇滚与R&B,以及英国的噪音爵士的混合体。披头士早期的唱片，如"Please Please Me" 和 "Love Me Do" ，就是这种流派的原型。不久之后，其它一些利物浦的乐队，如Gerry & the Pacemakers, Billy J. Kramer, 和 the Searchers也追随了此种风格。它之所以被称为“默西之声”是因为利物浦那条叫默西的河，此种风格在整个1963年和1964年的前半年极其风靡。但没过多久，一些R&B导向的乐队，如the Rolling Stones, the Kinks, 和 the Yardbirds出现了，同时出现的还有一些流行团体，如the Hollies 和 Freddie & the Dreamers。虽然这些团体都受到了默西之声的影响，但是这种风格本身却渐渐失去了根基，而披头士乐队也将他们的风格形式扩展到了更广的范围。Merseybeat is a light, highly melodic style of Beat Music popular in the UK during the early 1960s, named due to the abundance of bands from Liverpool beside the River Mersey. Merseybeat groups characteristically had simple guitar-dominated line-ups, with close vocal harmonies and catchy tunes. The resulting sound is chirpy, bouncy and simplistic, drawing influences from Rock & Roll, British Rhythm & Blues and late 1950s/early 1960s singles by acts such as Buddy Holly & The Crickets and Cliff Richard & The Shadows. The release of The Beatles' "Love Me Do" in October 1962 is an important focal point for the huge popularity of the sound between 1963 and 1965 in the UK (and the early first 'British Invasion' in the USA), with bands such as Gerry and The Pacemakers, Billy J. Kramer & The Dakotas, The Searchers, The Merseybeats and The Fourmost achieving consistent success in the hit parade. The most popular line-up comprised of lead, rhythm and bass guitars with drums. It is typified by the synchronization of the bass guitar (usually playing only the root and fifth notes of the chords) and the bass drum. Unlike in rock & roll, Merseybeat groups often incorporate two and three-part harmonies, and even those with a separate lead singer will often sing both verses and choruses in close harmony; the Liverpool accent also has a major role in the distinctive overall sound. Although there are instrumental breaks, the focus is on the presentation of the song rather than instrumental prowess. It is important to note that merseybeat is not simply a synonym for "any beat music made by Liverpudlian bands". This is exemplified by the rougher, more proto-Garage Rock sounds of "Walking the Dog" by The Dennisons and "Peter Gunn Locomotion" by Freddie Starr and The Midnighters.